990 january newletter (#994)
Financial-Times/origami: apps/website/_posts/2023-01-30-newsletter.md

---
title: Origami Newsletter, January 2023
description: Origami has more team members; Storybook templates; More accessibility improvements; New CLI tool to create new components.
author: Akaki Mikaia
tags:
  - Newsletter
---

<abbr title="Too long; didn't read">
<strong>
TL;DR:
</strong>
</abbr> {{page.description}}

## Top things

Some of the bigger Origami news since our last update:

### Origami has more team members

Origami is very happy that we have new team members joining. Ben Freshwater joined as full time S1 developer. Rhys Evans is helping Origami as part time product owner.

### Storybook templates

Origami has been thinking about adopting a tool for documenting and making interactive component demos. So last year Origami started writing TSX templates for existing components. Which gets integrated in our [Storybook](https://origami.ft.com/storybook/) demos and this gets us one step closer to new origami architecture.

**NOTE:** This is still work in progress and not every component has a TSX template, but play around the ones that we already published.

### More accessibility improvements

> In December Origami dedicated their energy to close as many accessibility issues as possible following DAC audit. In this successful endeavour we managed to close 38 issues out of 40. The remaining to are in progress.

Reviewer: `The remaining two are in progress.`

The most notable change was related to focus styles. We published [a blog](https://origami.ft.com/blog/2022/12/14/focus-styles/) about this if you want to have deeper dive in it, but in short focus rings are black and white shadows around the focusable elements.

### New CLI tool to create new components

Summer 2022 Origami re-build a CLI tool to make it easier for other developers to create new components. To create new components run `npm run create-component` from root folder and it will guide you through new component creation process and will generate template files and event some default code to get started with.

> **NOTE:** Since Origami is trying to migrate existing component to TSX templates at the moment the CLI tool also supports a command `npm run create-component storybook` that should help you to generate all the files needed to start building TSX template for existing components.

Reviewer: ```...component to TSX templates at the moment, the CLI tool also supports... ```

- [o-header](https://registry.origami.ft.com/components/o-header): Origami stopped supporting subbrand variants, since they are not in use anymore, in `o-header` component. We also published TSX templates for the `o-header` component. The drawer component has improved accessibility and it traps focus within the drawer.

- [o-share](https://registry.origami.ft.com/components/o-share): is version 9 now. The accessibility has improved and `o-share` no longer provides client-side JavaScript to generate markup. Instead, users will need to write the [full markup](https://github.com/Financial-Times/origami/blob/o-share-v9.0.1/components/o-share/MIGRATION.md#deprecate-autogenerate-share-links). To address some accessibility issues `o-share` now uses inline SVGs for icons.

- [o-ft-affiliate-ribbon](https://registry.origami.ft.com/components/o-ft-affiliate-ribbon): now has [storybook demo](https://origami.ft.com/storybook/brands/core/?path=/story/components-o-ft-affiliate-ribbon--ft-affiliate-ribbon-story) and TSX templates are also published to NPM.

> - [o-colors](https://registry.origami.ft.com/components/o-colors): only warns users of colour deprecations via Sass when they explicitly request a colour or colour use-case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [o-colors](https://registry.origami.ft.com/components/o-colors): only warns users of colour deprecations via Sass when they explicitly request a colour or colour use-case, reducing noise so engineers can focus on true issues.
```

- [o-editorial-layout](https://registry.origami.ft.com/components/o-editorial-layout): has TSX templates and a [storybook demo](https://origami.ft.com/storybook/brands/core/?path=/story/components-o-editorial-layout--body).

- [o-big-number](https://registry.origami.ft.com/components/o-big-number): We published TSX template to NPM packages.

- [o-normalise](https://registry.origami.ft.com/components/o-normalise): updated to match [FT browser](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1z6kecy_o9qHYIznTmqQ-IJqre72jhfd0nVa4JMsS7Q4/edit) policy and deprecate code supporting IE.

- [o-comments](https://registry.origami.ft.com/components/o-comments): got migrated to Coral V7.

> - [o-topper](https://registry.origami.ft.com/components/o-topper): Thanks to Phil Hunt for updating o-topper element. Now o-topper element has reduced the headline box size and removes a line from the deep portrait.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [o-topper](https://registry.origami.ft.com/components/o-topper): We supported the dynamic storytelling team to release two new toppers for articles: Deep Landscape and Deep Portrait, as featured in the recent product release announcement. Shout out to Alberto Cubero, Juan Sanchez, and Phil Hunt for their work on that!
```

> - [o-video](https://registry.origami.ft.com/components/o-video): Thanks to Juan Sanchez for contributing to o-topper component that now track progress of video on 99% since 100% is not sent on chrome.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [o-video](https://registry.origami.ft.com/components/o-video): Thanks to Juan Sanchez for contributing to o-video component that now tracks progress of videos at 99% watched, since 100% is not sent on Chrome.
```
